README.md, before:

# [Gardener Extension for Equinix Metal provider](https://gardener.cloud)

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal)
[![CI Build status](https://concourse.ci.gardener.cloud/api/v1/teams/gardener-public/pipelines/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal-master/jobs/master-head-update-job/badge)](https://concourse.ci.gardener.cloud/teams/gardener-public/pipelines/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal-master/jobs/master-head-update-job)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal)

Project Gardener implements the automated management and operation of [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) clusters as a service.
Its main principle is to leverage Kubernetes concepts for all of its tasks.

Recently, most of the vendor specific logic has been developed [in-tree](https://github.com/gardener/gardener).
However, the project has grown to a size where it is very hard to extend, maintain, and test.
With [GEP-1](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/proposals/01-extensibility.md) we have proposed how the architecture can be changed in a way to support external controllers that contain their very own vendor specifics.
This way, we can keep Gardener core clean and independent.

This controller implements Gardener's extension contract for the Equinix Metal provider.

An example for a `ControllerRegistration` resource that can be used to register this controller to Gardener can be found [here](example/controller-registration.yaml).

Please find more information regarding the extensibility concepts and a detailed proposal [here](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/proposals/01-extensibility.md).

## Supported Kubernetes versions

This extension controller supports the following Kubernetes versions:

| Version         | Support     | Conformance test results |
| --------------- | ----------- | ------------------------ |
| Kubernetes 1.30 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.29 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.28 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.27 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.26 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.25 | untested    | N/A                      |

Please take a look [here](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/usage/supported_k8s_versions.md) to see which versions are supported by Gardener in general.

----

## How to start using or developing this extension controller locally

You can run the controller locally on your machine by executing `make start`.

Static code checks and tests can be executed by running `make verify`. We are using Go modules for Golang package dependency management and [Ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo)/[Gomega](https://github.com/onsi/gomega) for testing.

## Caveats
You can use all available disks on your Equinix instance, but only under 
certain conditions:
* You must use Flatcar
* You must have a homogenous worker pool
* You must set any value for `DataVolume`

## Feedback and Support

Feedback and contributions are always welcome. Please report bugs or suggestions as [GitHub issues](https://github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal/issues) or join our [Slack channel #gardener](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/gardener) (please invite yourself to the Kubernetes workspace [here](http://slack.k8s.io)).

## Learn more!

Please find further resources about out project here:

* [Our landing page gardener.cloud](https://gardener.cloud/)
* ["Gardener, the Kubernetes Botanist" blog on kubernetes.io](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/05/17/gardener/)
* ["Gardener Project Update" blog on kubernetes.io](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/12/02/gardener-project-update/)
* [GEP-1 (Gardener Enhancement Proposal) on extensibility](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/proposals/01-extensibility.md)
* [GEP-4 (New `core.gardener.cloud/v1beta1` API)](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/proposals/04-new-core-gardener-cloud-apis.md)
* [Extensibility API documentation](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/tree/master/docs/extensions)
* [Gardener Extensions Golang library](https://godoc.org/github.com/gardener/gardener/extensions/pkg)
* [Gardener API Reference](https://gardener.cloud/api-reference/)

Commit message:

feat(ensurer): add README.md section for contributions

README.md, after:

# [Gardener Extension for Equinix Metal provider](https://gardener.cloud)

[![REUSE status](https://api.reuse.software/badge/github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal)](https://api.reuse.software/info/github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal)
[![CI Build status](https://concourse.ci.gardener.cloud/api/v1/teams/gardener-public/pipelines/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal-master/jobs/master-head-update-job/badge)](https://concourse.ci.gardener.cloud/teams/gardener-public/pipelines/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal-master/jobs/master-head-update-job)
[![Go Report Card](https://goreportcard.com/badge/github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal)](https://goreportcard.com/report/github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal)

Project Gardener implements the automated management and operation of [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) clusters as a service.
Its main principle is to leverage Kubernetes concepts for all of its tasks.

Recently, most of the vendor specific logic has been developed [in-tree](https://github.com/gardener/gardener).
However, the project has grown to a size where it is very hard to extend, maintain, and test.
With [GEP-1](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/proposals/01-extensibility.md) we have proposed how the architecture can be changed in a way to support external controllers that contain their very own vendor specifics.
This way, we can keep Gardener core clean and independent.

This controller implements Gardener's extension contract for the Equinix Metal provider.

An example for a `ControllerRegistration` resource that can be used to register this controller to Gardener can be found [here](example/controller-registration.yaml).

Please find more information regarding the extensibility concepts and a detailed proposal [here](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/proposals/01-extensibility.md).

## Supported Kubernetes versions

This extension controller supports the following Kubernetes versions:

| Version         | Support     | Conformance test results |
| --------------- | ----------- | ------------------------ |
| Kubernetes 1.30 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.29 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.28 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.27 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.26 | untested    | N/A                      |
| Kubernetes 1.25 | untested    | N/A                      |

Please take a look [here](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/usage/supported_k8s_versions.md) to see which versions are supported by Gardener in general.

----

## How to start using or developing this extension controller locally

You can run the controller locally on your machine by executing `make start`.

Static code checks and tests can be executed by running `make verify`. We are using Go modules for Golang package dependency management and [Ginkgo](https://github.com/onsi/ginkgo)/[Gomega](https://github.com/onsi/gomega) for testing.

## Caveats
You can use all available disks on your Equinix instance, but only under 
certain conditions:
* You must use Flatcar
* You must have a homogenous worker pool
* You must set any value for `DataVolume`

## Feedback and Support

Feedback and contributions are always welcome. Please report bugs or suggestions as [GitHub issues](https://github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-equinix-metal/issues) or join our [Slack channel #gardener](https://kubernetes.slack.com/messages/gardener) (please invite yourself to the Kubernetes workspace [here](http://slack.k8s.io)).

## Contributing
We appreciate contributions, but you need to follow certain processes:

### Process
To contribute, please open an issue, follow the template and describe what
you'd like to do.

For smaller fixes, you can usually start work already, for bigger changes,
please wait for a maintainer to get back to you on the issue.

### Technical
Please make sure that your code is tested.

Make sure to run `make generate` and add the generated files to your commit as 
otherwise the tests will most likely fail.

## Learn more!

Please find further resources about out project here:

* [Our landing page gardener.cloud](https://gardener.cloud/)
* ["Gardener, the Kubernetes Botanist" blog on kubernetes.io](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2018/05/17/gardener/)
* ["Gardener Project Update" blog on kubernetes.io](https://kubernetes.io/blog/2019/12/02/gardener-project-update/)
* [GEP-1 (Gardener Enhancement Proposal) on extensibility](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/proposals/01-extensibility.md)
* [GEP-4 (New `core.gardener.cloud/v1beta1` API)](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/docs/proposals/04-new-core-gardener-cloud-apis.md)
* [Extensibility API documentation](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/tree/master/docs/extensions)
* [Gardener Extensions Golang library](https://godoc.org/github.com/gardener/gardener/extensions/pkg)
* [Gardener API Reference](https://gardener.cloud/api-reference/)
