docs/usage-as-end-user.md, before:

# Using the Packet provider extension with Gardener as end-user

The [`core.gardener.cloud/v1beta1.Shoot` resource](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/example/90-shoot.yaml) declares a few fields that are meant to contain provider-specific configuration.

In this document we are describing how this configuration looks like for Packet and provide an example `Shoot` manifest with minimal configuration that you can use to create an Packet cluster (modulo the landscape-specific information like cloud profile names, secret binding names, etc.).

## Provider secret data

Every shoot cluster references a `SecretBinding` which itself references a `Secret`, and this `Secret` contains the provider credentials of your Packet project.
This `Secret` must look as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: core-packet
  namespace: garden-dev
type: Opaque
data:
  apiToken: base64(api-token)
  projectID: base64(project-id)
```

Please look up https://www.packet.com/developers/api/ as well.

With `Secret` created, create a `SecretBinding` resource referencing it. It may look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: core.gardener.cloud/v1beta1
kind: SecretBinding
metadata:
  name: core-packet
  namespace: garden-dev
secretRef:
  name: core-packet
quotas: []
```

## `InfrastructureConfig`

Currently, there is no infrastructure configuration possible for the Packet environment.

An example `InfrastructureConfig` for the Packet extension looks as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: InfrastructureConfig
```

The Packet extension will only create a key pair.

## `ControlPlaneConfig`

The control plane configuration mainly contains values for the Packet-specific control plane components.
Today, the Packet extension deploys the `cloud-controller-manager` and the CSI controllers, however, it doesn't offer any configuration options at the moment.

An example `ControlPlaneConfig` for the Packet extension looks as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: ControlPlaneConfig
```

## `WorkerConfig`

The Packet extension supports specifying IDs for reserved devices that should be used for the machines of a specific worker pool.

An example `WorkerConfig` for the Packet extension looks as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: WorkerConfig
reservationIDs:
- my-reserved-device-1
- my-reserved-device-2
reservedDevicesOnly: false
```

The `.reservationIDs[]` list contains the list of IDs of the reserved devices.
The `.reservedDevicesOnly` field indicates whether only reserved devices from the provided list of reservation IDs should be used when new machines are created.
It always will attempt to create a device from one of the reservation IDs.
If none is available, the behaviour depends on the setting:

* `true`: return an error
* `false`: request a regular on-demand device

The default value is `false`.

## Example `Shoot` manifest

Please find below an example `Shoot` manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: core.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: Shoot
metadata:
  name: johndoe-packet
  namespace: garden-dev
spec:
  cloudProfileName: packet
  region: ewr1
  secretBindingName: core-packet
  provider:
    type: packet
    infrastructureConfig:
      apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
      kind: InfrastructureConfig
    controlPlaneConfig:
      apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
      kind: ControlPlaneConfig
    workers:
    - name: worker-xoluy
      machine:
        type: t1.small
      minimum: 2
      maximum: 2
      volume:
        size: 50Gi
        type: storage_1
    - name: reserved-pool
      machine:
        type: t1.small
      minimum: 1
      maximum: 2
      providerConfig:
        apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
        kind: WorkerConfig
        reservationIDs:
        - reserved-device1
        - reserved-device2
        reservedDevicesOnly: true
      volume:
        size: 50Gi
        type: storage_1
  networking:
    # This field must be set to Management CIDR allocated by Packet when you create first machine
    # in a selected region.
    # See also https://github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-packet/issues/107.
    nodes: 10.250.0.0/25
    type: calico
  kubernetes:
    version: 1.20.2
  maintenance:
    autoUpdate:
      kubernetesVersion: true
      machineImageVersion: true
  addons:
    kubernetes-dashboard:
      enabled: true
    nginx-ingress:
      enabled: true
```

Commit message:

Add support for metros and facilities (#161)

docs/usage-as-end-user.md, after:

# Using the Packet provider extension with Gardener as end-user

The [`core.gardener.cloud/v1beta1.Shoot` resource](https://github.com/gardener/gardener/blob/master/example/90-shoot.yaml) declares a few fields that are meant to contain provider-specific configuration.

In this document we are describing how this configuration looks like for Packet and provide an example `Shoot` manifest with minimal configuration that you can use to create an Packet cluster (modulo the landscape-specific information like cloud profile names, secret binding names, etc.).

## Provider secret data

Every shoot cluster references a `SecretBinding` which itself references a `Secret`, and this `Secret` contains the provider credentials of your Packet project.
This `Secret` must look as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: core-packet
  namespace: garden-dev
type: Opaque
data:
  apiToken: base64(api-token)
  projectID: base64(project-id)
```

Please look up https://www.packet.com/developers/api/ as well.

With `Secret` created, create a `SecretBinding` resource referencing it. It may look like this:

```yaml
apiVersion: core.gardener.cloud/v1beta1
kind: SecretBinding
metadata:
  name: core-packet
  namespace: garden-dev
secretRef:
  name: core-packet
quotas: []
```

## `InfrastructureConfig`

Currently, there is no infrastructure configuration possible for the Packet environment.

An example `InfrastructureConfig` for the Packet extension looks as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: InfrastructureConfig
```

The Packet extension will only create a key pair.

## `ControlPlaneConfig`

The control plane configuration mainly contains values for the Packet-specific control plane components.
Today, the Packet extension deploys the `cloud-controller-manager` and the CSI controllers, however, it doesn't offer any configuration options at the moment.

An example `ControlPlaneConfig` for the Packet extension looks as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: ControlPlaneConfig
```

## `WorkerConfig`

The Packet extension supports specifying IDs for reserved devices that should be used for the machines of a specific worker pool.

An example `WorkerConfig` for the Packet extension looks as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: WorkerConfig
reservationIDs:
- my-reserved-device-1
- my-reserved-device-2
reservedDevicesOnly: false
```

The `.reservationIDs[]` list contains the list of IDs of the reserved devices.
The `.reservedDevicesOnly` field indicates whether only reserved devices from the provided list of reservation IDs should be used when new machines are created.
It always will attempt to create a device from one of the reservation IDs.
If none is available, the behaviour depends on the setting:

* `true`: return an error
* `false`: request a regular on-demand device

The default value is `false`.

## Example `Shoot` manifest

Please find below an example `Shoot` manifest:

```yaml
apiVersion: core.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
kind: Shoot
metadata:
  name: johndoe-packet
  namespace: garden-dev
spec:
  cloudProfileName: packet
  region: ny # Corresponds to a metro
  secretBindingName: core-packet
  provider:
    type: packet
    infrastructureConfig:
      apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
      kind: InfrastructureConfig
    controlPlaneConfig:
      apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
      kind: ControlPlaneConfig
    workers:
    - name: worker-xoluy
      machine:
        type: t1.small
      minimum: 2
      maximum: 2
      volume:
        size: 50Gi
        type: storage_1
      zones: # Optional list of facilities, all of which MUST be in the metro; if not provided, then random facilities within the metro will be chosen for each machine.
      - ewr1
      - ny5
    - name: reserved-pool
      machine:
        type: t1.small
      minimum: 1
      maximum: 2
      providerConfig:
        apiVersion: packet.provider.extensions.gardener.cloud/v1alpha1
        kind: WorkerConfig
        reservationIDs:
        - reserved-device1
        - reserved-device2
        reservedDevicesOnly: true
      volume:
        size: 50Gi
        type: storage_1
  networking:
    # This field must be set to Management CIDR allocated by Packet when you create first machine
    # in a selected region.
    # See also https://github.com/gardener/gardener-extension-provider-packet/issues/107.
    nodes: 10.250.0.0/25
    type: calico
  kubernetes:
    version: 1.20.2
  maintenance:
    autoUpdate:
      kubernetesVersion: true
      machineImageVersion: true
  addons:
    kubernetes-dashboard:
      enabled: true
    nginx-ingress:
      enabled: true
```

⚠️ Note that if you specify multiple facilities in the `.spec.provider.workers[].zones[]` list then new machines are randomly created in one of the provided facilities.
Particularly, it is not ensured that all facilities are used or that all machines are equally or unequally distributed.
